China's rise as a modern nation has been
nothing short of remarkable the
country's leaders often and proudly tell
the world that in just a few decades
they've lifted more than 600 million
people out of poverty but China's
economy is Sloane
cracks in the system are starting to
appear and it's the Chinese people who
are facing the pain some economists warn
the country's building boom never
delivered real prosperity that
government spending has been poorly
managed even downright reckless wet your
finger and stick it in the wind and find
a useless project in China
the unchecked spending has left behind
ghost towns anger and uncertainty
I'm Steve Chow in this episode of 101
needs to investigate if this is the end
of China's economic miracle in
northeastern China a grand new city has
risen out of farmlands this ition Phu
locally known as new foo schwimmer it's
entirely deserted a ghost town of epic
proportions 22 square kilometers of
emptiness
with the economy faltering construction
ground to a halt last year leaving empty
strip malls and newly paved roads
leading to nowhere since agony ha ha
we meet maangchi June a taxi driver who
agrees to show us around
take a lawyer's office no not at all let
me go in
shit June grew up in Altru Shrek the
original city a few kilometers away
he believes the government has
squandered taxpayers dollars and
squandered their future his future
officials spent hundreds of millions of
dollars building the new zone selling
the place is a way for residents to
enjoy a modern lifestyle she drinks as
people aren't buying the sales pitch how
absolutely bizarre
say - is it anyway - a genielle my life
little buddy got hurt
let our little hi
for 30 years she joined worked at the
city's aluminum mill nearby but in 2014
as China's economy slowed he was laid on
rather than massive building projects
he believes money should have been spent
on helping retrain workers instead he's
had to fend for himself from making $50
a day at the factory
she joined now averages less than 10
Yallah showing you lots of what I'm not
reminded to tarf
you can own it are two local da from a
yarn alize yeah your thoughts on its
ugly head made with Hannah she's missing
her today
whatever
we visit one of the city's development
officers its reception like the rest of
the town is deserted inside we find a
model of what new foosh limb was
supposed to look like it's a grand
vision of office towers and stylish
residential living
the centerpiece of town is called the
circle of life a 60-story structure made
from three thousand tons of steel it
costs sixteen million dollars to build
that was meant to attract tourists but
they like the residents are yet to
materialize even more troubling is that
hundreds of deserted cities like this
can be found across China
there's an eerie feeling walking through
these abandoned buildings it's like time
has come to a standstill according to
the government China has more than 2
billion square meters of empty
residential space that's enough to house
more than a hundred million people these
empty shelves have in many ways become
symbols of a wild spending spree that
some say has gone on far too long get in
the car drive on any highway get off on
any exit and ask the first person you
run into where is the development zone
and you will be directed to a KERS and
acres of empty high-rises economists and
stephenson young spent 20 years in China
and witnessed the boom years but now
fears the country's economy could
collapse China has huge debt problem if
the problem is that it's just relied on
the same methods for a really long
period of time of spend spend spend and
she says that with all the bad
investments the country's debt is
mounting at an alarming pace in 2005
China owed 164 percent of its GDP today
it's almost double
this mountain of death is piling up
faster and the economy is growing if
China had been willing to give up that
hyper growth then it might have avoided
the potential for a serious crash and
the serious debt crisis but it didn't
and it won't it's not just the ghost
cities that point to overspending this
office building in the shape of an
ancient coin cost half a billion dollars
showing there's no limit to the fanciful
dreams turned into concrete reality
elsewhere a replica of Dubai's palm
island development meant to be a
retirement home for seniors the
construction here too has ground to a
halt then there's this water park the
30,000 square metre playground cost more
than 300 million dollars to build and
was scheduled to open in the summer of
2015 it was supposed to provide the
world's best aquatic experience the
sheer amount of waste here is shocking
it's taking considerable time and money
to mix the concrete to forge the steel
to make the bricks even to design the
architecture of these buildings and
instead it's all been left to ruin
Stevenson Young says the building
projects we've seen are just the tip of
the iceberg
it's a craziness on a level that you
haven't seen elsewhere in the world and
you you have to think that that's going
to create a crisis of a level that
hasn't been seen elsewhere while
officials aren't keen to talk about
failure such projects are too big and
too numerous to ignore government
economic advisors ouchy jr. Nixon
China has a problem yo Ashiya Kavita
certain local governments and parties
might not have planned well an apartment
once they go bankrupt it's going to be
really difficult to pay back the loans
Omaha I'm afraid we will need to take
further steps in order to solve this
debt issue ng ensuring a stable economy
is seen as crucial to the survival of
China's Communist Party its leaders have
long held an unspoken social contract
with the people leave the governing to
us and we will make you rich but at this
year's annual Party Congress even the
leaders had to admit to making monetary
missteps erosion suna sheesh our
government indeed interfere in some
unnecessary things they have held back
economic
50 but still officials deny the notion
the nation is in financial trouble only
John watching gee we are fully confident
of China's long-term economic growth as
long as we continue to reform and open
up China's economy will not suffer a
heart lending endo to prevent that hard
landing China is taking a controversial
gamble despite the looming debt problems
it's encouraging citizens to take on
even more debt loot by more real estate
and clear the oversupply the question is
can they afford - traditionally Chinese
were good savers but increasingly
families are accumulating debt at a
frightening rate from 2007 to 2013
household debt rose by more than three
hundred and thirty percent that's the
highest rise anywhere in the world
in yet another newly built town it's
certainly business as usual we find
developers hard at work trying to sell
their projects hey take one hey are you
knightmon hey daikon we've heard that
some developers and agents are so eager
to sell they're offering ways to obtain
fraudulent mortgages
and yeah we meet a man who says he's
been selling real estate for two years
Jamia does have a fun fun funky junky
old as you know non-college og Hopp
using hidden cameras our producer and I
pose as a couple interested in buying a
home buying property in China used to be
one of the safest investments but the
bubble has since burst in many of these
small cities that's not the story our
agent is telling us he says the price
has already risen tenfold
okay but he claims new buyers like us
can still make a hefty profit and he can
easily help us get a mortgage so my god
what what do not for me cool long down
to when we tell him we don't have any
income earnings to show the bank's he
suggests we fake a letter of employment
guys always handing over the other
changing done yeah no actual thing
together while the holiday are you sold
about you are bilingual nor
so without the only dummy not murder
what he's suggesting is a crime then he
goes further okay Bob Finnell I got to
the side of a mine well periodic losses
were bad Shenandoah
so these are our moons attendant
indefinite falsifying sale certificates
is also illegal
the realtor claims this is common
practice the possible result
the kind of debt that caused America's
subprime disaster now could be happening
all over again here in China home buyers
here are often told house prices will
continue to rise and they can sell at a
profit instead many of these new
properties are virtually worthless
most people remain in denial it's really
kind of a fascinating thing to watch how
you can move all over this country and
for a long time people had really a kind
of um it's kind of like an a mass
delusion another sign that people are in
serious debt is a proliferation of loan
sharks
the men admit they charge back-breaking
interests for their loans belong to
provided of it what God get is your
black boy over so why didn't you go
through with your daddy of 100 yeah I'm
fully open good you gotta do it out yeah
joy upon parking or we going for the
yeah
it's China's leaders that are
encouraging his people to take on debt
and for some it's leading to these kinds
of shady loans and bad mortgages we find
an excuse to leave one of those worried
about paying back her mortgage is the
ocean shop she runs a scrapyard in old
Fisher
- out him up join the boom times Jun
Shah was encouraged by the government to
take on debt and buy into the real
estate dream in her case she bought two
apartments one for herself and one for
her elderly parents but now she can't
afford the mortgages and the threat of
bankruptcy hanging over her is making
her physically sick cunt some tea water
water being louder be another whatever
sign what the earlier since our daily
don't go powder and hoping to hear
everyone's hi sign yeah laughs we're
gonna good here now
yeah why you tomorrow camera and my
drummer boy after watching that I've had
a chance
Budhia channel Daniela with the economic
slowdown first rap yard is failing steel
used to be a surefire business and for
two decades business was booming for
junior
there was an endless demand from
government-funded building programs and
a steel mill next door bought anything
she could sell them sizzle in banja say
we can touch a hot zone
Sasol Daniel on orality plan another
leadership
mightier miter oh wow
Chiana sorry Jessie koala had a pretty
good by partial pressure and that's had
a direct impact on her workers she can
now only afford to hire them part-time
coming right for my channel I will meet
Kendall lion they make me a number to a
quoi Sicily your chorus on Java like I
yeah June Shaw
now cooks for her workers to try and
ease their financial pain to make up for
not being able to pay their full wages
generously she also offers us lunch
sentence Wutai Donnelly even though with
money so tight she counts every cent so
it's a city - as always sandwich a dosa
so usually they're just some hot but yet
I never came home hmm and Piazza what's
what he plows
June Shaw and her workers aren't the
only ones struggling to survive the
collapse of industry and the loss of
jobs is fueling anxiety and anger across
the country
just weeks ago in China's southwest
these miners went on strike far from
sharing in the promised prosperity they
find themselves struggling to survive
so will many single visitor need you to
watch see don't push out on the moonlit
sit up walrus with his hand is younger
area hopefully she don't forget your
woman album good DJ today the UN action
the strike here was quickly shut down
and most of the leaders have been
arrested threatened with losing their
jobs many of the miners return to work
but during shift change we managed to
talk with one protest organizer who
avoided jail that's all on him incognito
saw your clothes on her woman trench on
the general what am I wrong sure Bing
has spent his life in the mines but it's
a life that's getting tougher with less
work and less pain what finally made
them walk off the job was learning the
company had cheated them out of their
medical and retirement farms
meaning I think since she all right
sirenoid to go to Vienna
Shantae is a real essential put
overweight children well thanks G
Segundo under Chinese law companies must
cover such costs because of the toll
this work takes like many coal dust is
embedded under shipping skin and in his
lungs
he's also broken every bone in his hand
what Shang Natasha do when you gently on
the tea on the fire so they own is
Jewish
Satan chakuda she's feeling good onion
hello Shu Xiang janosh with her show to
the GU er agenda are to them they come
from do fearing his bosses will discover
us at the mine he leads us to a nearby
house where other miners have quietly
gathered to speak to us say new Mensa
side say at kuang homes all go Sonya
with a Polish rustle yeah she's singing
you should Siobhan you GT by here Sonya
these miners no just meeting with a
journalist could get them arrested but
they insist on appearing on camera to
tell the world what's happening
I know today's young to go ham sandwich
rolling good woman jaggery to go winch
sunny she's hair should I - Sasha Zack
we buy fire which i'll Rosa water you go
you what edu cocoa board what's that -
young we work with this is like whatever
Sonia
can leave where Catalan is Radha - Jabar
bajalia you will know me gelatine Jamil
to me you let another innocent child for
many time is running out one man shows
me his medical certificate he has lung
cancer although he will announce any
move don't do it they don't know the
national attention other usually yo-yo
comes to your honeymoon
school generally these are the village
house dorothy ackridge am I sitting -
Chan mmm shut up I'll tune it out you
mean but the miners worried about more
than their medical insurance they
worried about how much longer they'll
have a job at all
many already have been laid off or made
part-time China's slowing economy in a
shift away from polluting energy sources
has meant a slump in the demand for coal
ash as a channel would ya - no Jenna to
each other
hygiene jogging for Google comfort fall
out
woman you shall one I added to happening
in living room meeting woman I'm eating
well the only housing they can now
afford are small rooms like this which
they share together they feel left out
of China success even gangjae show hey
so one genie member bloomie the Congo
Tommy Segundo
I usually tell the Ranger Ranger you'd
eliminate on it with a chart type in
Shaba mile affilorama woman and solution
tell Charlie Minaj anaconda to be me
Lydia were Charla diesel momenta women
sheet ocean hakuna mutata if there is no
condom are you telling me anemia say
Shan Shan Shan for sure Sally Latoya oh
my suka will come tomorrow
Sonia Sonia Sonia ma woman champagne so
twisted Omar Hammami a single feature in
2015 a record number of people took to
the streets in protest the government
has done it's best to shut down
demonstrations arresting and
intimidating protesters in but their
answer to the economic slowdown won't
help the workers far from it economist
Sally Jewell says the days of popping up
big industry are over Nisha
sure sure sure talent portion recall the
businesses that have over capacity of
without good futures zombie enterprises
jankoji la Konishi Alana
they must be shut down from your
perspective
has development come too fast for
trainer John boyega
China's a very big country and
development is very unbalanced Tasha
CNET imagine the perspective of the
central government is we need to modify
the old structure of development into a
new one Jing Zhi farter at the top bad
loans mounting debt if the slowdown has
been painful for the Chinese what does
this mean for the world China is roughly
sixteen percent of global population and
it's been consuming roughly 50% of
global resources that's going to stop
that will be hugely impactful to
Australia Canada Brazil Indonesia all of
these people and there's a huge chain of
consequences meanwhile those who made
China's boom possible will pay the
highest price for the national spending
spree that's the tragedy of the
political system this emergence from
poverty of China since the 1980s all
these people working in all those
factories with all these dreams seeing
their bank accounts mount seeing a
future for their children way better
than they ever had and those hopes you
know that the party managed to suck in
that capital throw it into empty
apartments and those are the people who
will be heard
back in foosh one former factory worker
turned taxi driver
maangchi June says he stopped believing
the leaders promises seen year to Jimmy
Allah to him and the mythology a mini
hunter one behind I ran a machine he
really father nothing why would cool the
magenta around here
yeah she'll choose the two I guess but
I'll give it a mother we do the toe
vision he says he hopes he's wrong and
the government will fix things but for
now it's hard for him to see a bright
future for his country